What was the word for with in Spanish and we have it in words like convenient
Confirm.
Oh, con.
So con is with and we have it as like a Latin building block in many Latin English words.
Consequence with sequence.
Now in Spanish you don't say with her, with him, with them.
You actually just say with he, with she, with they
So how would you say with him or with he?
Con él.
With her.
Con ella.
With them
Con ellos.
Or, I mean if it was feminine group.
Oh, ellas.
Yeah.
Con ellas.
With us
Nos nos is us, but of course in Spanish we won't say with us, we will say with we.
Con nosotras.
Good.
With you speaking formally.
Con usted.
And with you guys.
Con ustedes.
The word for for is para.
So how would you say for him?
Para él para él.
Good.
So when you decided that it was parael, you put para and con in the same group.
And they are in the same group.
They're in a group of words which are called prepositions.
Now prepositions show some kind of movement or position and they're very important and interesting words.
So it's useful for us to identify them as we did with verbs and adjectives and nouns.
So we're gonna investigate now a little more about prepositions and uh how they behave in Spanish.
So for him, parael.
For her
Para ellas.
Para ella.
Good.
For them.
Para ellos.
Or?
Para ellas.
Good.
And for us?
Para nosotros.
Nosotras.
Good.
Para nosotras, if it's a more feminine group.
Like I said, we don't say for him but for he and we don't say for her but for she with the exception of me and you informal
We get two different versions of the words for me and you.
So for me is parami, parami.
And you in fumul becomes ti.
So for you, speaking informally is para ti.
So this is just after prepositions.
We get this mi and ti, mi and ti
So we can find another preposition that we learnt already.
The word for of or from.
So again this is a small word which is showing a movement, direction, or position.
These are prepositions.
So what was over from?
De, good.
So how would you say from him?
De L good De L from her.
De ella.
From me
The mi.
Yes.
The mi spelled M-I.
And from you, speaking informally?
The T.
Good.
From them
De ellos de ellos or ellas good de ellas from us de nosotros de nosotros good
From you guys.
They'll still.
Good.
Is it is it from you guys
Est de Ustedes.
Good.
Is it from you guys?
Estel Ustedes?
How would you say it's for you guys?
Es para ustedes.
Good.
How would you say it is with you guys?
Es con ustedes.
Now something to me doesn't feel right here.
When we say es de ustedes
It's from you guys and es para ustedes it's for you guys we are speaking about things that are quite characteristic
of whatever this thing is, whatever this it is.
It's for you guys, it's from you guys.
But when we say it's with you guys
We are speaking about a state because we are speaking about the location of something.
So how do you think it will be it is with you guys
Está con ustedes.
Very good.
To do
or to make was Asir.
H A C E R.
Aser.
So how would you say he does or he's doing or he makes or he's making?
Ah.
This is from a bear, but well thought out.
So it's a good A favor is un favor.
Un favor.
So how would you say he's doing me a favor?
He's doing me a favor.
Mease un favor.
Good.
How would you say he's doing her a favour?
La hace un favor.
Now if you say la hace, it sounds like he's making it a feminine thing.
If you want to say he's doing her a favour for her
So what does la turn to to become to her for her?
Le hace un favor.
Good.
Desir is to tell.
Now also we have hablar to speak or to talk.
And desir is to say or to tell.
D E C I R So the fear in most of Spain desir.
So how do you say I want to tell?
I want to say
I want.
Just think of I want.
Quiero.
To say or to tell?
Decir.
Quiero decir.
I want to tell him.
I want to tell him Le Qiero de Sir.
Le Qiero de Sir or
Good.
You have the option there of where you can put the le before the changed verb or after the complete verb.
Le quiero decir, quiero decirle.
But if you want to say I want to say it.
Lo quiero decir.
So we see actually with this le
We are kind of replacing a preposition with le and less.
An imaginary preposition.
To, for, from.
For example, comparar
Comprar means to buy.
I can say I buy you something.
Now this you is actually replacing for you.
I buy something for you.
So what is I buy from comprar?
Compro.
How do you say I buy them and you refer to the things that you're buying?
Los compro.
But if you say I buy them and you mean I buy for them.
Les compro.
So this is the most natural Spanish structure.
You use les instead of for them.
But
You could say I buy for them.
You could do that if you wanted to using for them literally.
So how would you say I buy or I'm buying for them?
Compro para ellos.
Good.
So in an everyday situation, I'm buying something for them.
Les compro.
Mostly we're gonna be avoiding these prepositions.
So he buys it for me.
I'm just gonna say he buys me it rather than he buys it for me.
So how would you say that he buys me it?
Me compra.
Me lo compra.
They buy me o they buy it for me.
Me lo compran.
Good.
They buy them for me.
Me los compran.
Good.
Now we said that these small words me nos te le
Most of the time, what we are replacing with them is two, but sometimes it's like for, like to do a favor for.
But they also might be replacing other prepositions like de, for example,
If I want to say he buys it from me, I don't really need the from there either.
I can just say he buys me it.
So how would I say that?
He buys it from me.
He buys me it.
Me lo compra.
So this is totally ambiguous.
No?
It could mean he buys it for me or he buys it from me.
But it's something that we'll understand from the context.
So the key point to take away from here is that we probably use prepositions much more in English than in Spanish
And you just want to kind of like listen out for this and then you will start shedding them.
You will start shedding your prepositions the more you listen to Spanish.